doc: add initial version of values and prios doc (#11)
nodejs/next-10: VALUES_AND_PRIORITIZAION.md

# Values and Priorities

> Document Status: Proposal, Work In Progress

## Context

Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relatively priority
that are applied when making tradeoffs.

## Values and priority level

This is only a subset of the overall prioties, listing only those which are at the

> top of the priority list. Anthing on this list is very important for the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
```

despite the relative priorities shown.

- Prio 1 - Developer experience
- Prio 2 - Stability
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities

> - Prio 4 - Technology and API Currency

Reviewer 2: I would like to add maintainer experience to this list. IMO, without maintainers none of the above can happen.

> - Prio 3 - Operational qualities
> - Prio 4 - Technology and API Currency

Author: ```suggestion
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities
- Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency
```
```

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
  - Approachability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 

### Stability
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Clear expectations set around support?
  - LTS support for users still using older versions of Node 

### Operational Qualities
  - Performance

>     - Throughput, size, startup time

Reviewer 3: nit: we could add `memory footprint` as the last item in the list

# Values and Priorities

> Document Status: Proposal, Work In Progress

## Context

Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relatively priority
that are applied when making tradeoffs.

## Values and priority level

This is only a subset of the overall prioties, listing only those which are at the
top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
despite the relative priorities shown.

- Prio 1 - Developer experience
- Prio 2 - Stability
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities
- Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience

>   - Approachability (both technical and community)
>   - Great Documentation 

Author: ```suggestion
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:
  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 
  - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external
  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience
```
  

  

  - bundling things to remove obstacles.
  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Good API and backwards compatibility support for external tooling (webpack, react, etc.), listening for feedback.
  - Tooling (webpack, react, 
  - Great Documentation 
  
```

# Values and Priorities

> Document Status: Proposal, Work In Progress

## Context

Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relatively priority
that are applied when making tradeoffs.

## Values and priority level

This is only a subset of the overall prioties, listing only those which are at the
top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
despite the relative priorities shown.

- Prio 1 - Developer experience
- Prio 2 - Stability
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities
- Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:
  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 
  - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external
  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Clear expectations set around support?

>   - LTS support for users still using older versions of Node 

Author: ``` suggestion
We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 
```

  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 
  - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external
  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include: 
 - throughput(speed)
 - startup time
 - binary size
 - memory footprint
 - Debug tooling (debugger)
 - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

### Technology and API currency
  - Up to date and current APIs and technologies
  - Adoption of new technologies

>   - Web API compatibility, standards compliance

Author: ```
We value providing developers with modern APIs and technologies following existing standards whenever possible.  Some key elements of this include:
  - participating in standards work and organizations
  - web API compatibility
  - supporting new technologies and standards and exposing them early in their life-cycle 
```

- Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:
  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 
  - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external
  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include: 
 - throughput(speed)
 - startup time
 - binary size
 - memory footprint
 - Debug tooling (debugger)
 - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Node.js maintainer experience
We value ensuring that Node.js maintainers are productive and enjoy maintaining Node.js and related components. Some key elements of this include:
- Approach-ability of the code base
- Good internal documentation and guides
- Low friction policies and processes
- Good CI and tooling to make maintainers productive
```

This is only a subset of the overall prioties, listing only those which are at the
top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
despite the relative priorities shown.

- Prio 1 - Developer experience
- Prio 2 - Stability
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities
- Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:
  - Approach-ability (both technical and community)
  - Great Documentation 
  - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external
  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities

> We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include: 

Author: ```suggestion
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include:  
 - Throughput(speed)
  - Startup time
  - Binary size
  - Memory footprint
  - Debug tooling (debugger)
```

  - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:
  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases
  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include: 
 - throughput(speed)
 - startup time
 - binary size
 - memory footprint
 - Debug tooling (debugger)
- Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

### Node.js maintainer experience
We value ensuring that Node.js maintainers are productive and enjoy maintaining Node.js and related components. Some key elements of this include:
- Approach-ability of the code base
- Good internal documentation and guides
- Low friction policies and processes
- Good CI and tooling to make maintainers productive

> ### Technology and API currency

Author: ```suggestion

### Technology and API currency
```

## Context

Prioritize the **Technical** values shared by the project and use these to guide us when making tradeoffs.

## Values and priority level

This is only a subset of the overall priorities, listing only those which are at the
top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
despite the relative priorities shown.

- Priority 1 - Developer experience
- Priority 2 - Stability
- Priority 3 - Operational qualities
- Priority 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Priority 5 - Technology and API currency

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:
- Approachability (both technical and community)
- Great Documentation 
- Bundling friction-reducing APIs and components, even though they could be provided externally
- Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

### Stability
To avoid introducing churn into Node.js' ecosystem, we value stability and consistency across releases and avoid breaking changes. Some key elements of this include:
- Backwards compatibility
- Predictable and stable releases

> - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 

Author: ```suggestion
A strong safety net, including explicitly testing how changes in Node.js affect userland packages.
```

> A strong safety net, including explicitly testing how changes in Node.js affect userland packages.

Author: ```suggestion
- A strong safety net, including explicitly testing how changes in Node.js affect userland packages.
```

  - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 
  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include: 

>  - throughput(speed)
>  - startup time
>  - binary size
>  - memory footprint
>  - Debug tooling (debugger)
> - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

Author: ```suggestion
  - Throughput(speed)
  - Startup time
  - Binary size
  - Memory footprint
  - Debug tooling (debugger)
 - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)
```

>   - Throughput(speed)
>   - Startup time
>   - Binary size
>   - Memory footprint
>   - Debug tooling (debugger)
>  - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

Author: ```suggestion
 - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)
 - Addressing security vulnerabilities in a responsible maner
```

### Node.js Maintainer Experience
We value the productivity and happiness of Node.js' maintainers. Some key elements of this include:
- Approachability of the codebase
- Good internal documentation and guides
- Low-friction policies and processes
- Good CI and tooling to make maintainers productive

> ### Technology and API Currency

Author: ```suggestion
### Providing modern APIs and Technologies
```

# Values and Priorities

> Document Status: Proposal, Work In Progress

## Context

> Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relatively priority

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relative priorities
```

> Define the `Technical` values shared by the project and their relatively priority
> that are applied when making tradeoffs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Prioritize the **Technical** values shared by the project and use these to guide us when making tradeoffs.
```

## Values and priority level

> This is only a subset of the overall prioties, listing only those which are at the

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This is only a subset of the overall priorities, listing only those which are at the
```

top of the priority list. Anything on this list is very important for the project
despite the relative priorities shown.

- Prio 1 - Developer experience
- Prio 2 - Stability
- Prio 3 - Operational qualities
- Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience

> - Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Prio 5 - Technology and API currency
```

> - Prio 1 - Developer experience
> - Prio 2 - Stability
> - Prio 3 - Operational qualities
> - Prio 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
> - Prio 5 - Technology and API Currency

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Priority 1 - Developer experience
- Priority 2 - Stability
- Priority 3 - Operational qualities
- Priority 4 - Node.js maintainer experience
- Priority 5 - Technology and API Currency
```

## Value descriptions

### Developer Experience
We value ensuring that developers are productive and enjoy developing with Node.js. Some key elements of this include:

>   - Approach-ability (both technical and community)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Approachability (both technical and community)
```

  - Great Documentation 

>   - Bundling API/components which reduce the friction of using them, even though they could be external

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Bundling friction-reducing APIs and components, even though they could be provided externally
```

>   - Enabling/supporting external packages to ensure overall developer experience

Reviewer 5: It's kind of unclear what is meant by this

Author: What we were trying to say was that developer experience for the Node.js ecosystem is not only about the APIs provided directly by Node.js itself but also those provided by external packages as well.  In that context it is important to provide APIs, or whatever else is needed to support external packages in helping the overall developer experience.

Any suggestions on how to better capture that that they short version we had?

Reviewer 5: maybe something like "Enable better developer experiences in packages and applications built upon Node.js"?

### Stability

> We value keeping Node.js stable and consistent across releases versus introducing breaking changes that require churn in the ecosystem. Some key elements of this include:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To avoid introducing churn into Node.js' ecosystem, we value stability and consistency across releases and avoid breaking changes. Some key elements of this include:
```

  - Backwards compatibility
  - Predictable and stable releases

>   - A strong safety net (testing etc.) 

Reviewer 5: (if this is indeed what you mean):
```suggestion
  - A strong safety net--explicitly testing how changes in Node.js affect userland packages
```

Author: @boneskull how about

A strong safety net, including explicitly  testing how changes in Node.js affect userland packages.

Reviewer 5: sure

  - Careful consideration of what goes into LTS releases 

### Operational Qualities

> We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include:  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and lightweight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include:  
```

> We value keeping Node.js safe, performant and light weight as well as the ability to investigate and debug problems in development and production. Some key elements of this include:  

Reviewer 5: - Does "safe" mean "secure"?  
- If kept, "light weight" should be "lightweight"

suggestion:

```suggestion
We value security, performance, a small footprint, and observability in development and production environments.
```
 
"debuggability" is maybe a word, and "diagnoseability" is likely not 😄

>  - Throughput(speed)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Throughput (speed)
```

>  - Throughput(speed)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - Throughput (speed)
```

  - Startup time
  - Binary size
  - Memory footprint
  - Debug tooling (debugger)

>  - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Diagnostic tooling (profilers, heapdumps, coredumps, etc.)
```

>  - Addressing security vulnerabilities in a responsible maner

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Addressing security vulnerabilities in a responsible manner
```

>  - Addressing security vulnerabilities in a responsible maner

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - Addressing vulnerabilities responsibly
```

> ### Node.js maintainer experience

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Node.js Maintainer Experience
```

> We value ensuring that Node.js maintainers are productive and enjoy maintaining Node.js and related components. Some key elements of this include:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We value the productivity and happiness of Node.js' maintainers. Some key elements of this include:
```

(maybe add a bullet point about "related components" below)

> - Approach-ability of the code base

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Approachability of the codebase
```

- Good internal documentation and guides

> - Low friction policies and processes

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Low-friction policies and processes
```

I _think_ that is correct 😄

- Good CI and tooling to make maintainers productive

> ### Technology and API currency

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Technology and API Currency
```

Reviewer 5: also... I don't understand what "API Currency" means

> We value providing developers with modern APIs and technologies following existing standards whenever possible.  Some key elements of this include:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We value providing developers with modern APIs and technologies following existing standards whenever possible. Some key elements of this include:
```

>   - participating in standards work and organizations
>   - web API compatibility
>   - supporting new technologies and standards and exposing them early in their life-cycle 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Participating in standards work and organizations
  - Web API compatibility
  - Supporting and exposing new technologies and standards through early adoption
```
